So, let's start developing an ammo pickup truck. Let's start with adding the necessary properties, parameters
that the pickup weapon will have. I copied the macro in advance so as not to retype it. The first property will be
responsible for the number of shops that the character can take. Its access specifier is EditAnywhere,
that is, we can change the value of any pickup on the scene and also added Clamp restrictions
to the meta information. The value will be from 1 to 10. The variable is of type int32. Let's call it ClipsAmount.
And by default, we will set it to 10. The second property that we need will be
responsible for the type of weapon, that is, we will use this variable to determine which weapon
needs to add these ClipsAmount magazines. The variable will be of type TSubclassOf <ASTUBaseWeapon> Let's
call it WeaponType.
Add a forward declaration for the weapon class.
Move to the .cpp file. Let's add the header files that we need and we need: STUHealthComponent,
STUWeaponComponent and our STUUtils utility. So, in the GivePickupTo function,
we will need to add the number of magazines to the corresponding weapon type.
First, let's check if our character is alive or not. To do this, we get the health component
using our function, which we created in the previous section when we made widgets
and pass the PlayerPawn pointer to the function. Next, we need to check. If this component
does not exist or the IsDead function of the health component returns true, then we exit the function
with the value false, because our character is definitely dead and, for example, he could simply
fall on this pickup truck dead. If the character crossed the collision alive, then we get a pointer
to the WeaponComponent. If this component does not exist, then we also exit the function.
And if it exists, then we call the function that we need to create. Let's call it TryToAddAmmo.
And we pass the parameters to this function: the number of stores and WeaponType. This completes the writing of the code
in this function. That is, we have fully implemented the pickup class. First, move
to the WeaponComponent. We declare a function in the header file with the signature we need: the type of weapon
and the number of cartridges. The function will also return a boolean value, that is, under
some conditions, even with a live character, we will not be able to add an arsenal to a certain weapon.
So the pickup has called the TryToAddAmmo function.
We need to go through the entire array of our weapons and determine if there is a type of weapon in our
arsenal to which we want to add magazines or not. To do this, we check the Weapon pointer to nullptr
and check if the weapon is of a certain type. This can be done using the IsA function.
This function of the UObject class takes a type as a parameter and returns true if the current object
is of this type. Thus, if these two conditions are met, then we have found the type of weapon we are interested in.
And we will call one more additional function, which will be located directly in the base weapon class.
Let's also call it TryToAddAmmo. Only the type of weapon we now do not need to transfer,
Enough number of magazines. if after checking all the elements of the array of
our weapons we did not find the type of weapon we are interested in, then we simply return false.
Moving on, go to the BaseWeapon header file. We declare the TryToAddAmmo function. It will also return a
boolean value and add an additional function, for example, to the protected section.
Let's call it IsAmmoFull. This is a helper function. We create it to improve the readability of our code.
Let's start with her. This function is completely simple. It will return true
when the current number of cartridges and magazines matches the default values.
We create a body for the TryToAddAmmo function.
This is the most important function in this tutorial. It will contain the main logic for adding magazines and cartridges.
We'll start with the conditions under which we cannot add a pickup. The first condition: the type of weapon we have is Infinite.
In general, it is possible to implement that we only add cartridges in this situation, but we will not do this.
We also exit the function, we have a full ammunition load, that is, we simply have nothing to
add to this ammunition, since the function is public, it can be called from any client
that uses this BaseWeapon class, and not just from our pickup. Therefore, let's add a check
that the number of stores must be greater than 0, under these conditions we will not take the pickup and return false.
Next, we have several cases, which depend on how we will add stores.
The first case: when IsAmmoEmpty returns true, that is, the number of magazines and cartridges is zero.
In this case, we completely fill the ammunition stores. The number that came to the function can be greater than the
default Clips value. By this number (DefaultAmmo.Clips), we determine the maximum possible number of
magazines in this weapon, so we need to limit the ClipsAmount value added to CurrentAmmo.Clips to the DefaultAmmo.Clips
value, for this we use the FMath :: Clamp function It is
not necessary to add CurrentAmmo.Clips to the first argument because this value is zero.
The second argument is the lower limit of the Clamp, and the third is the upper one. We also add 1 to DefaultAmmo.Clips,
because after that we immediately call our reload delegate and it turns out that if we have a
default value of clips equal to 5, and in the pickup there were, for example, 10 clip values, then we make CurrentAmmo.Clips
equal 6, we reload and one clip goes directly to the weapon.
Thus, the ammunition will be completely filled. In the following condition, the current number of clips is less than the maximum value.
We will write this condition a little later. It is the most difficult and third condition.
We fall to this point in the code if the current number of clips is equal to the default number of clips, but at the same time we
know that our arsenal is not full. This means that the number of cartridges we have is less than the maximum,
then we actually use the entire pickup to fill the current clip, which is in our weapon.
We pass to the second branch. Here we also have several options.
We need to check if we can use the ClipsAmount value to replenish both the
magazines in the ammunition and the current magazine, that is, in fact, fill the number of cartridges
to the maximum. For this purpose, we will create an additional local variable.
Let's call it NextClipsAmount and write in a variable the sum of the current value of
stores and the number of stores that were passed to our function.
Next, we check: if the value of the difference between the maximum value of stores
and this variable NextClipsAmount is greater than or equal to 0, then this means
that we can assign this value to the variable to the current value of stores, that is, the number of
stores we have will not exceed the maximum and plus in this case we will not be left with
an additional store in order to replenish the clip directly into the weapon.
If the difference between these two variables is less than zero, then we have at
least one additional clip, with which we can also replenish the current
magazine in the weapon. That is, in fact, our ammunition is fully replenished: both Clips and Bullets.
Let's add logs to all of our branches for testing to see how it works.
If we are in the first branch of our if statement, let's write "Ammo was empty".
If we managed to add only stores, then write "Clips were added".
If we have completely memorized the ammunition, then we will write "Ammo is full now".
And in the last branch we will write "Bullets were added". We compile the project.
We got a compilation error.
We forgot to add a return statement at the end. That is, in this case, we had a pickup and we can finally return true.
Also in the IsAmmoFull function I made a mistake. You need to write DefaultAmmo.Bullets
Let's change the default values ​​of the launcher, because we now have one cartridge in the clip. It will not be clear how everything works.
Click on the pickup and add the BP_STULauncher weapon type to the WeaponType.
We start the game. We cross the pickup with full ammunition - the pickup is not taken. Further, for example,
if I spend two rounds, I run into a pickup truck and our current clip is completely full.
"Bullets were added" was printed to the log. Now we shoot one clip and let's say several cartridges. We run in.
"Ammo is full now" was printed in the log, that is, we added both bullets and clips. Then I sped up the video.
I shoot all the ammunition, everything is zero. We run into the pickup and, in fact, we added 6 to both of
us in the ammunition load , but we immediately reloaded one and "Ammo was empty" was printed in the log. Everything is working.
But we have one hidden problem: if we, for example, shoot again all the ammunition.
After that we will change weapons and run into the pickup. We got the message "Ammo was empty".
Let's switch weapons. Launcher values ​​= 0 / 6. This happened because in the weapon component we
always reload CurrentWeapon, that is, the current weapon. Let's change the FOnClipEmptySignature delegate a bit.
Let's add one parameter to it. Let's change the macro to DECLARE_MULTICAST_DELEGATE_OneParam.
And we will add a pointer to ASTUBaseWeapon, that is, when we call the Broadcast function,
we will pass a pointer to the weapon that requests reloading.
The delegate's signature has changed. Now we need to pass the this parameter to the Broadcast function,
that is, a pointer to the current instance. We do this in two places in the ASTUBaseWeapon class.
The delegate's signature has changed. We need to change the callback function OnClipEmpty.
She now has one parameter - a pointer to the weapon that needs to be reloaded.
Add a parameter to the .cpp file.
Now we can make the following check: if the pointer to the current weapon equals AmmoEmptyWeapon,
then we need to call the animation and reload the weapon. Everything is as we usually did,
that is, in fact, call the ChangeClip function. Let's transfer it under the given if.
And if the current weapon is different, then we need to iterate over the entire array of weapons.
And if we find such a weapon,
then we just silently call the ChangeClip function of this weapon.
That is, no animations will be played, but the reload logic of the weapon will work. Also, for the purity of the function, let's
immediately check at the beginning: if the pointer is null, then we exit the function. Let's check. Compile.
We'll put one cartridge at the launcher so as not to waste time firing the ammunition. We launch.
We shoot two times.
We take the pickup. The current weapon is a launcher, so the animation worked. Everything is correct. We shoot twice again.
We change weapons. We run into the pickup. Once again we change the weapon and now the clip for the weapon is also full.